# Release Notes

## 1.5.0 (May 4th, 2023)

### Breaking Changes
* We're no longer releasing an installer. The nuget package can be found at https://www.nuget.org/packages/Reveal.Sdk.Wpf, samples can be found at https://github.com/RevealBi/sdk-samples-wpf.

### New Features
* (Beta) Chart actions available while hovering the mouse. Turn on using `RevealSdkSettings.EnableActionsOnHoverTooltip = true`.

### Bug Fixes
* Fixes and performance improvements for the new category charts
* Setting the Host property in MsSql provider in the IRVDataSourceProvider but not in the client causes error
* Redshift queries fail if the Schema property is not set in the dataSourceItem (should use the default, 'public', schema)
* All database datasources required the Database property to be set in the DataSourceItem (even if it was set in the DataSource). Now the property has been deprecated in the DataSourceItem, and setting it in the Database just works.
* Opening a linked dashboard caused a crash
* Treemap showing Redshift/Postgres data failed
* Error using Standard Deviation aggregation with Redshift or Postgres
* Setting a different Sheet for an Excel datasource using IRVDataSourceProvider didn't work
* Error if clicking in blank space between the title and statistics icon while in Visualization Editor mode.
* Cannot change the title of a new visualization (when it is initialized as a blank title)
* PostgresSQL connection to localhost doesn't work
* If a JSON attribute name begins with a number the extracted value is always empty
* Data Blending field panels don't scroll with mouse wheel or trackpad
* Unable to move filter when there are 10+ of them in edit mode
* Fixed a concurrency issue if several visualizations accessed the same data at the same time.
* Sybase ds item wrapper with configured custom query property still returns all data
* Replacing Analysis Services data source doesn't work
* Dynamics CRM - NRE is thrown when you try to get data using a data source item
* An exception is thrown when no image is set in DashboardEmptyState
* RVReportingServicesDataSourceItem seems to be missing properties for configuring parameters
* It is not possible to render a pdf report using RVReportingServicesDataSourceItem
* "No Url specified for web resource" error replacing DataSource WebResource URL 
* Calls to IRVDataSourceProvider.ChangeDataSourceItemAsync always has null for dashboardId argument
* KPI Indicators - "There's no data to display" has wrong style
* Some global filters are being reset when start selecting their options
* Null Reference Exception thrown when using a specific Excel sheet with custom styles.
* MySQL timestamp columns are read as UTC datetimes when they're actually in the session timezone.
* The nuget files contains more dependencies than it should
* Very bad performance on Redshift blending when using a RVRedshiftDataSourceItem
* Error when using InMemory datasource in SDK
* Error in Salesforce visualization when using Lead's ConvertedDate as a filter
* S3 Excel resource item not working after replace DS/DSI scenario (app kept in loading after sheet selection when creating widget)
* The Rest API URL should not be shown in errors

## 1.4.1 (April 4th, 2023)
_This is a nuget.org only update._

### Bug Fixes
* Fixes error `Failed to add reference to 'libigsslic32'.` when referencing the Reveal WPF SDK using the Nuget Package Manager.

## 1.4.0 (Feb-2023)

### Breaking Changes
* Category Charts have a new look & feel. The old L&F is deprecated but if needed for whatever reason, they're can be restored by doing `revealSdkSettings.enableNewCharts = false`.
* Subtitles for Data Source Items are no longer autogenerated. Only the Subtitle property is considered.

### New Features
* New API `onFieldsInitializing` that makes it possible to customize the list of fields shown in the visualization editor, by removing, renaming or reordering fields. Usage example: 
```
revealView.onFieldsInitializing = function (args) {
	args.fields = args.fields.filter(f => !["Avg.CPC", "Avg. CPC"].some(e => e == f.name));
};
```
* BigQuery, Snowflake and Athena now support the `CustomQuery` property
* Snowflake - Allow setting `Warehouse` property from sdk

### Bug Fixes

* When trying to join a third dataset the app freezes
* Inconsistent time part for dates sent in the range parameter of `onDateFilterChanged`
* Inconsistent day shown in the global filter range selector, when using 'Today' or 'Yesterday' two different days were displayed.
* Data blending editor doesn't show the field used for joining when that field comes from a previous data blending.
* RVSnowflakeDataSourceItem Does Not Work

## 1.3.1 (Jan-2023)

### BREAKING CHANGES
- The `Reveal.Sdk.Wpf.Trial` nuget package has been **deprecated** and is **no longer updated**. 
- The new `Reveal.Sdk.Wpf` nuget package is now available on [nuget.org](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Reveal.Sdk.Wpf), and will work as both a Trial and Licensed version. To unlock the Trial, set the license key in the SDK.
- The license key is now set in the `RevealSdkSettings` of the Reveal SDK (previously, this was done in the installer). Here's how to set it:

```cs
RevealSdkSettings.License = "XYZ123";
```

### Bug Fixes
- Fixed issue: when creating a REST datasource using parameters. If the back button was pressed, values were already populated but they were not really applied.
- Fixed issue: Dashboard filter list of available values was always refreshed when opening a dashboard, no matter what expiration setting was set.
- Fixed issue: Dashboard filter expiration value was not saved.
- Fixed issue: Dashboard horizontal filter lost when maximizing and then restoring.
- Fixed issue: the kebab menu in the dashboard view was not reachable using the keyboard (tab).
- Fixed issue: Dashboard linking stops working after selecting a dashboard filter in the linked visualization.
- Fixed issue: Wrong value shown for Scatter Map mouseover tooltip.
- Fixed issue: Cancelling the MenuOpening event didn't really cancel.
- Fixed issue: In ChangeDataSourceItemAsync method, the userContext parameter was coming with null value.

## 1.3.0 (Nov-2022)

### New Features
- New Data Source: Google Analytics 4.
- Interactive Dashboard Filtering: Filter all visualizations using the same data source by clicking on a chart or pivot table data point. Enable with: `revealView.interactiveFilteringEnabled = true`.
- New function 'DateDiff' for calculated fields.
- Customization of the export path can now be achieved by using the `DefaultExportPath` property found in `RevealSdkSettings`

### Bug Fixes
- Fix error when filtering boolean values in Postgres & Redshift ("operator does not exist")
- Removed new http header 'XRID' that was accidentally added in v1.2.3 and was causing issues with CORS.             
